# 13 August 2021: My Why

I was privileged to have someone coach me to identify my WHY. I have also had the privilege of coaching a number of people to identify their WHY.
Identifying my own WHY has been profound. It is like a guiding light; a filter through which to analyse the balls that life throws me. In its simplest
form my WHY is just two words: pioneering focus. I understand focus to be purpose (or your WHY) with discipline. The Cambridge dictionary defines disciplined
as the ability to control yourself or other people, even in difficult situations. If your WHY is your path to your vision, then discipline is the guardrails 
that keep you on that path.

If I look back I have always found myself in pioneering roles, whether working for startups or with startups or starting new initiatives. I started my career
in software development working for two software companies that were both pioneers in their fields. The second one was Mark Shuttleworth's SSL certificate 
company that was sold to Verisign back in 1999. A few of us joined Mark Shuttleworth after that on a new initiative. I found myself as one of the founding 
members of Mark Shuttleworth's venture capital company, a new entrant in a still developing industry in South Africa at that time. It was my time at HBD Venture
Capital that started my career in the startup industry and mentoring and business coaching. 

Since then I have worked with hundreds of startups and mentored and coached many individuals. As I mentioned above, I have also had that special privilege of
helping a number of individuals identify their WHY. It is hard to describe. The best way I can describe it is that it is a beautiful thing: me working in my 
WHY and they discovering theirs. Then we work together on their plan which helps with the discipline they needed to get to their vision.
