# 23 July 2021: Change?

Calling all the parents out there: who has had success changing their children, whether it be bad behavour or a bad habit? 
I think usually we tolerate these behaviours or habits until the frustration has got too much and then we explode. There is lots of shouting 
and threatening that this is the last time that this will happen or else....and then we tolerate it for a bit longer again until...

It was not so long ago that I was suffering from this cycle of toleration and explosion. The dreaded (but what would we do without them) screens! 
My one very not-black-and-white and highly skilled-at-negotiation child could not get the screen curfew idea. 'But all my friends in South Africa are still 
on their screens and we are two hours behind them,' he would say. I would watch the curfews pass and I would hold it in for a few days with just a warning 
and no consequences but then when a few other buttons had been pushed in the same day and I saw the curfew had once again been ignored, kaboom!
I was demonstrating one of the most powerful agents for change, dissatisfaction. The only problem was my behaviour was the one that was changing, and for the worse!

Ok, so how do we change this around so that the one that needs to change feels the dissatisfaction?  Yes, I know, I was also in need of change to my behaviour
and got a taste of my own medicine and realised that my approach was not working but my child also needed to learn that the curfew needed to be stuck to and 
that it was for his own good. So, how did I shift the dissatisfaction from me to him once I had come to my senses? I installed an app on his phone that implemented
the curfew with military precision. Dissatisfaction level one. He got to feel what it was like to actually listen to the rule. No more losing my cool. And if other 
violations occurred I could use the app to implement even stricter curfews as a punishment. Dissatisfaction level two. Of course there were lots of complaints 
initially but it helped that his sister had gone through the same process before him. I was amazed how soon this new authority was accepted. 

The curfew was turned off a few weeks later to allow phone communication during an extramural and I forgot to turn it back on again. This stayed this way for a few 
days until I remembered and swiftly turned it back on. My son asked if I would trust him to stick to the curfew and rather keep it off to see if he could. He has kept 
his side of the deal other than the expected unintentional mistakes and so his behaviour has been changed.

Dissatisfaction is a powerful agent for change that I use when coaching adults and now children as well and can yield great results but more is needed than just 
change to inspire lasting change in anyone but more about that in my future blog entries.
