# 6 August 2021: Why?

In my last [blog article](https://outofthemouthofbabes.github.io/2021/07/30/Narnia.html) I mentioned part of the story of Prince Caspian from the 
Chronicles of Narnia. We saw how the four heroes of the story, Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy, and a dwarf got lost on their journey. Only Lucy had vision to
see the guide that was there to keep them on the right path. They came up with a few plans but the one that prevailed was guided by their WHY, Aslan. 
He was their reason for being there and on that journey in the first place. Lucy had the vision needed to see the guide and she received wise counsel and clear
instructions from him. This is key: the best plans are established by seeking wise counsel from others.

But hearing Aslan's instructions was not enough. Lucy had to actually follow them and in this case convince the rest of them to do the same even though they
could not see Aslan at first. They stuck to those instructions and there was a happy outcome. So, we see the important elements that drive change emerging:
a level of dissatisfaction with the current status quo; a clear vision; and the best plan guided by their WHY. When coaching, I will look to quantify these and
then work towards improving them to aid change and a good result. But the process is always focused on the person at hand; who they are and what drives them 
(their WHY).

But what is this WHY really? In the Narnia story we see that it is our heroes reason for being there. This is linked to who Aslan is, who he knows the heroes
to be and also some of the heroes deepest desires. Aslan can guide the heroes because he knows who they are and therefore he knows what they need. There is a
dormant hero in each of them desiring to break free from the mundaneness of the school day and into the adventure of life! Perhaps your child is there: their 
dissatisfaction is high and they don't seem to know where they are going let alone how to get there but you can see so much potential. They need a guide.
