# 18 June 2021: Unity

Unity has definitely been a prevailing theme on my heart, popping up in various places and a struggle at times too.
My meditations on unity brought me back to some of the first posts on this blog and the namesake verse, "out of the mouthes of babes" (Matt 21:16).
There is an interesting story that surrounds this verse. First, we see Jesus overturning the tables in the temple because of the corrupt practices that are taking place there. 
Then he goes on to perform some miraculous healings and while this is happening children are responding with perfect praise. 
The chief priests and scribes respond very differently, however. They question Jesus on the childrens' praise response. What is going on here?

We see some very different perspectives and reactions. The childrens' response to Jesus's presence and miracles is praise. They enter His gates with thanksgiving and His courts with praise (Psalm 100:4).
What has all this got to do with unity? We are instructed to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace (Ephesians 4:3) and to bear with one another in love (v2). 
Unity in the Spirit: the presence of God is a prerequisite for this unity. We saw earlier that we enter into the presence of God with thanksgiving and praise. 
There is a personal decision that must be made to praise, much like we see the Psalmist doing in Psalm 63. But there is also a personal decision to bear with one another in love.
We see Jesus doing this when the chief priests and scribes question the childrens' response. He supports the children and corrects the chief priests and scribes with scripture. 
He uses the Word to bring the right perspective on what is going on. And in this case we see perfect unity between Jesus and the children in this flow of gifts in the Spirit. 
