# 30 July 2021: Narnia

Children have an ability to see things we adults sometimes can't. CS Lewis captures this so brilliantly in the Chronicles of Narnia in so many ways. 
For those that don't know, the Chronicles of Narnia is a story of a magically world called Narnia ruled by a Lion called Aslan and kings and queens and
inhabited by magical creatures. The land can only be accessed via portals that require childlike faith to be seen. The story that comes to mind as I write is
the story of Prince Caspian. In this story, four children, Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy, the heros of the story, find themselves unexpectedly back in the
land of Narnia and realise that all is not well and that their help is needed. But they need to get to where the trouble is and after rescuing a dwarf
from drowning they team up to find their destination.  

It is at this point where age and conventional wisdom let them down. Lucy, the youngest spots Aslan, the Lion, briefly and believes that they should go
left to follow Aslan but the dwarf, who knows the area, says that it makes more sense to go right and find a place there to cross the gorge ahead of them. 
To cut a long story short, after hours of walking they have to go all the way back again. But that night, after an encounter with Aslan where she receives 
clear instructions, Lucy manages to get the other four to follow her as she follows Aslan (they can't see him).

So in review and referring back to my previous blog article on [dissatisfaction](https://outofthemouthofbabes.github.io/2021/07/23/change.html), the five travellers had lots of dissatisfaction to move as they united around
the vision that their beloved Narnia was in danger but, with no clear guide the first time - only Lucy saw Aslan and the others were not convinced - the
group ignored the guide who was there to keep them on the right path and went the wrong way. The dissatisfaction of this unnecessary journey, however, 
prepared their hearts to be more open to Lucy's insight the next time. 

It's much like this when coaching an adult or child: usually circumstances have created some level of dissatisfaction that is an agent for change but time
needs to be taken to clarify the vision; the positive outcome that is out there to be achieved or the battle that is waiting to be won. Once that is clear 
there are usually many paths to get there but, as we saw in the story, some can take a lot longer than others if you forsake the guides. The guides often 
help to clarify the vision as well as define the path. The dwarf certainly acted as a guide in this story in terms of clarifying the vision and choosing 
a path but it was the wrong path. They needed to find Aslan, the reason they were in Narnia in the first place, before they were guided to the right path.
Aslan was their WHY. But more about this in the next blog article.
